= SMS Gateway

The SMS Gateway gem provides a simple and extensible interface for
various SMS Gateways. It is loosely oriented on Action Mailer. The
gem allows you to create an SMS and deliver it synchronously or
asynchronously. So far it ships with the following adapters:

* smsglobal.com
* smstrade.de


= Installation

You install the gem in your rails app by adding it your +Gemfile+:

    gem "sms_gateway"


After that you run the <tt>bundle:install</tt> task and then invoke the
gem's generator:

    rails g sms_gateway:install

which installs an initializer and a yml file that you will need
to configure before sending out an SMS.


== Resque and Redis

To deliver SMS asynchronously this gem makes use of resque, a popular
queing system basd on the key-value data store redis. You need
to have a working resque and redis setup if you want to use the
aynchronous sending feature. For more information on resque visit
https://github.com/defunkt/resque .


= Usage

Similar to action mailer you create a message object first:

    m = SmsGateway::Sms.new(:from => '493088888888, :to => '49309999999',
          :text => 'my sms must not be longer than 160 characters.')    


And then deliver it with:    

    m.deliver


This will block until the the HTTP call is complete. As with email it's
better practice to enqueue the call: 

    m.deliver_later

This will be non-blocking and is the recommended way of sending an SMS.
This requires a resque worker, though, to get actually sent (see the
resque documentation):

    rake resque:work



= Outlook and Todo

So far the gem is pretty limited. Ideas for following version are:

* more and better unit tests
* more sms gateway apis
* decoupling of resque
* error handling


= License

GPLv3. Copyright 2011 Kai Rubarth.  



